sections/baselineCharacterization.rst, before:

Baseline characterization
############################################

Background 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Initial characterization studies performed on LSSTCam were used two primary acquisition sequences.

* B protocols: this acquisition sequence consists of the minimal set of camera acquisitions, including 

  * Bias images
  * Dark images
  * Flat pairs
  * Stability flats
  * Wavelength flats
  * A persistence dataset

* PTCs (photon transfer curves): this acquisition sequence consists of a sequence of flat pairs taken at different flux levels. The flat acquisition sequence samples different flux levels at a higher density than the B protocol flat sequence, enabling a more precise estimate of flat pair metrics. 


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/PTC_BProtocol_Comparison.jpg
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/PTC_BProtocol_Comparison.jpg
   :alt: Figure showing the density of sampling between PTCs (blue) and B protocols (red)


All EO camera data is processed through the `calibration products <https://github.com/lsst/cp_pipe>`__ and `electro-optical <https://github.com/lsst-camera-dh/eo_pipe/tree/main>`__ pipelines to extract key metrics from the data run. The key camera metrics from Run 7, and their comparison to previous runs are discussed below.


The naming of the EO runs was established during initial camera integration and testing. The final SLAC IR2 run from November 2023 was named "Run 6", while the data acquisitions from Cerro Pachon are considered "Run 7." Additionally, individual EO acquisitions are tagged with a run identifier. This is commonly referred to a Run ID. For all SLAC runs, the run identifier was a five digit numeric code, while the Cerro Pachon runs were "E-numbers" that started with a capital E followed by a numeric code. 

For comparison between Cerro Pachon EO runs and the final SLAC IR2, the following runs are used.

+------------+--------------+------------------+
|  Run Type  | SLAC IR2 Run | Cerro Pachón Run |
+============+==============+==================+
| B Protocol |    13557     |      E1071       |
+------------+--------------+------------------+
|    PTC     |    13591     |       E749       |
+------------+--------------+------------------+


Among all of these measurements, primary concern is that the camera has maintained its performance standards between the SLAC IR2 run in November 2023 and the Cerro Pachon run in October 2024.


Bias metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Charge transfer inefficiency
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
CTI, or charge transfer inefficiency, measures the fraction of charge that fails to transfer from the image area to the readout register during image readout. Consequences of high CTI include loss of charge, distorted signals in the direction of the parallel register, and reduced sensitivity in low light imaging.
In the context of LSSTCam, we measure CTI along both the serial and parallel registers. 

Serial CTI 
"""""""""""


Parallel CTI
"""""""""""""



..
  Bias Stability?

Dark metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Dark current
"""""""""""""
Dark current is the small amount of electrical charge generated in the absence of light due to thermal activity within the CCD’s semiconductor material. This effect occurs when thermal energy causes electrons to be released from atoms in the CCD, mimicking the signal that light would produce. Dark current increases with temperature, so cooling the CCD is a common method to reduce it in sensitive imaging applications. Dark current introduces noise into an image, degrading its quality, particularly in low-light conditions or long exposures.
In the context of LSSTCam, we measure dark current from the combined dark images across all amplifiers.


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_DARK_CURRENT_MEDIAN.png
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_DARK_CURRENT_MEDIAN.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between dark current measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon


Bright defects
"""""""""""""""
Bright defects are localized regions or individual pixels that produce abnormally high signal levels, even in the absence of light. These defects are typically caused by imperfections in the CCD’s semiconductor material or manufacturing process. Bright defects can manifest as “hot pixels” (pixels with consistently high dark current), small clusters of pixels with elevated output, or as "hot columns" (pixels along the same parallel register that have high dark current).
In the context of LSSTCam, we extract bright pixels from the dark current, with the threshold for a bright defect set at 5 e- / pix / s, above which the pixel is registered as a bright defect.


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_BRIGHT_PIXELS.png
   :target:  /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_BRIGHT_PIXELS.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between bright pixel measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

Reviewing the differences in bright pixels, we find consistent bright defect counts between Run 6 and Run 7. There appears to be a small excess of bright defects in Run 7.


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/BRIGHT_PIXELS_13557_E1071_diff.png
   :target:  /figures/baselineCharacterization/BRIGHT_PIXELS_13557_E1071_diff.png
   :alt: The comparison between bright pixel measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon, taking the differences between measurements on a per amp basis. 

Taking the difference of defect counts on each amplifier, and separating the amplifiers by the detector manufacturer shows a small excess of bright defects in run 7 when compared to run 6. For ITL sensors, we find 12% of the amplifiers with more bright pixels than run 6. For E2V sensors, we find 4% of the amplifiers with more bright pixels than run 6. Despite this, the number of bright defects between runs does not increase for most sensors.


Stability flat metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

..
  Gain stability? Or would we use the gain stability runs to describe this?


Flat pair metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/run7PTCsToDate.jpg
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/run7PTCsToDate.jpg
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between PTC measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon


.. 
  Add a figure of the PTC from the SLAC IR2 run and the CP run

Linearity and PTC turnoff
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Linearity turnoff and PTC turnoff are two closely related metrics used to characterize the upper limit of the usable signal range for accurate imaging. 
Linearity turnoff is the point at which LSSTCam deviates from linearity in the PTC curve. In our case, the deviation threshold is 2%.
PTC turnoff refers to the high signal region of the PTC where the PTC begins to decrease noise for higher flux. This is due to blooming and saturation within the CCDs.
While slightly different, both metrics provide important information about the upper limits of the dynamic range in our sensors. Linearity turnoff is measured in units of e-, while PTC turnoff is measured in ADU.


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_LINEARITY_TURNOFF.png
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_LINEARITY_TURNOFF.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between linearity turnoff measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

..
  Write something here about linearity turnoff

.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_PTC_TURNOFF.png
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_PTC_TURNOFF.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between PTC turnoff measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

..
  Write something here about PTC turnoff

Maximum observed signal
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""


PTC Gain
""""""""""""
PTC gain is the conversion factor between the number of electrons generated in the CCD's pixels and the digital output signal. It is one of the key parameters derived from the Photon Transfer Curve, as it is the slope from where the noise is dominated by shot noise. Gain is expressed in e- / ADU, and quantifies how effective the CCD's analog signal is digitized. 

Brighter fatter a_00 coefficient
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_PTC_A00.png
   :target:  /figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_PTC_A00.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between PTC A_00 measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon


Brighter-fatter correlation
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""


Row means variance
""""""""""""""""""""


PTC Noise
"""""""""""


Divisadero Tearing
"""""""""""""""""""""


Dark defects
""""""""""""""""
Dark defects are localized regions or individual pixels that produce abnormally low signal levels, even in the presence of light. These defects are typically caused by imperfections in the CCD’s semiconductor material or manufacturing process.
In the context of LSSTCam, we extract dark pixels from combined flats, with the threshold for a dark defect set to a 20% deviation from flatness.

.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_DARK_PIXELS.png
   :target:  /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_DARK_PIXELS.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between dark pixel measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

Dark pixels measures between SLAC and Cerro Pachon average ~1800 per amplifier, regardless of manufacturer. The reason for the high dark pixel counts is due to a picture-frame response near the edges of the sensors.

.. 
  Picture of the picture-frame response

The configuration for generating dark defects considers a border pixel region that is masked differently from the dark pixels. The default configuration has a border of zero. The largest region allowed for the picture frame region is 9 pixels, determined by LCA-19363. When applying a uniform 9 pixel mask across SLAC IR2 runs and Run 7 runs, we get the following result.

.. 
  Picture of 9 pixel dark defect comparison


Persistence
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



Differences from previous runs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


..
  table here showing the metrics and their comparison to IR2 metrics

..
  currently we do not use different LED flats for analysis - should we make mention of them at all?

Commit message:

Adding dark current section for baseline characterization - not quite sure about conclusions, but content is there

sections/baselineCharacterization.rst, after:

Baseline characterization
############################################

Background 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Initial characterization studies performed on LSSTCam were used two primary acquisition sequences.

* B protocols: this acquisition sequence consists of the minimal set of camera acquisitions, including 

  * Bias images
  * Dark images
  * Flat pairs
  * Stability flats
  * Wavelength flats
  * A persistence dataset

* PTCs (photon transfer curves): this acquisition sequence consists of a sequence of flat pairs taken at different flux levels. The flat acquisition sequence samples different flux levels at a higher density than the B protocol flat sequence, enabling a more precise estimate of flat pair metrics. 


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/PTC_BProtocol_Comparison.jpg
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/PTC_BProtocol_Comparison.jpg
   :alt: Figure showing the density of sampling between PTCs (blue) and B protocols (red)


All EO camera data is processed through the `calibration products <https://github.com/lsst/cp_pipe>`__ and `electro-optical <https://github.com/lsst-camera-dh/eo_pipe/tree/main>`__ pipelines to extract key metrics from the data run. The key camera metrics from Run 7, and their comparison to previous runs are discussed below.


The naming of the EO runs was established during initial camera integration and testing. The final SLAC IR2 run from November 2023 was named "Run 6", while the data acquisitions from Cerro Pachon are considered "Run 7." Additionally, individual EO acquisitions are tagged with a run identifier. This is commonly referred to a Run ID. For all SLAC runs, the run identifier was a five digit numeric code, while the Cerro Pachon runs were "E-numbers" that started with a capital E followed by a numeric code. 

For comparison between Cerro Pachon EO runs and the final SLAC IR2, the following runs are used.

+------------+--------------+------------------+
|  Run Type  | SLAC IR2 Run | Cerro Pachón Run |
+============+==============+==================+
| B Protocol |    13557     |      E1071       |
+------------+--------------+------------------+
|    PTC     |    13591     |       E749       |
+------------+--------------+------------------+


Among all of these measurements, primary concern is that the camera has maintained its performance standards between the SLAC IR2 run in November 2023 and the Cerro Pachon run in October 2024.


Bias metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Charge transfer inefficiency
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
CTI, or charge transfer inefficiency, measures the fraction of charge that fails to transfer from the image area to the readout register during image readout. Consequences of high CTI include loss of charge, distorted signals in the direction of the parallel register, and reduced sensitivity in low light imaging.
In the context of LSSTCam, we measure CTI along both the serial and parallel registers. 

Serial CTI 
"""""""""""


Parallel CTI
"""""""""""""



..
  Bias Stability?

Dark metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Dark current
"""""""""""""
Dark current is the small amount of electrical charge generated in the absence of light due to thermal activity within the CCD’s semiconductor material. This effect occurs when thermal energy causes electrons to be released from atoms in the CCD, mimicking the signal that light would produce. Dark current increases with temperature, so cooling the CCD is a common method to reduce it in sensitive imaging applications. Dark current introduces noise into an image, degrading its quality, particularly in low-light conditions or long exposures.
In the context of LSSTCam, we measure dark current from the combined dark images across all amplifiers.


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_DARK_CURRENT_MEDIAN.png
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_DARK_CURRENT_MEDIAN.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between dark current measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

Surprisingly, dark current was significantly lowered in Run 7 compared to run 6. Possible reasons for this could be improved shrouding conditions on the camera on Cerro Pachon compared to SLAC.

Bright defects
"""""""""""""""
Bright defects are localized regions or individual pixels that produce abnormally high signal levels, even in the absence of light. These defects are typically caused by imperfections in the CCD’s semiconductor material or manufacturing process. Bright defects can manifest as “hot pixels” (pixels with consistently high dark current), small clusters of pixels with elevated output, or as "hot columns" (pixels along the same parallel register that have high dark current).
In the context of LSSTCam, we extract bright pixels from the dark current, with the threshold for a bright defect set at 5 e- / pix / s, above which the pixel is registered as a bright defect.


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_BRIGHT_PIXELS.png
   :target:  /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_BRIGHT_PIXELS.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between bright pixel measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

Reviewing the differences in bright pixels, we find consistent bright defect counts between Run 6 and Run 7. There appears to be a small excess of bright defects in Run 7.


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/BRIGHT_PIXELS_13557_E1071_diff.png
   :target:  /figures/baselineCharacterization/BRIGHT_PIXELS_13557_E1071_diff.png
   :alt: The comparison between bright pixel measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon, taking the differences between measurements on a per amp basis. 

Taking the difference of defect counts on each amplifier, and separating the amplifiers by the detector manufacturer shows a small excess of bright defects in run 7 when compared to run 6. For ITL sensors, we find 12% of the amplifiers with more bright pixels than run 6. For E2V sensors, we find 4% of the amplifiers with more bright pixels than run 6. Despite this, the number of bright defects between runs does not increase for most sensors.


Stability flat metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

..
  Gain stability? Or would we use the gain stability runs to describe this?


Flat pair metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/run7PTCsToDate.jpg
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/run7PTCsToDate.jpg
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between PTC measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon


.. 
  Add a figure of the PTC from the SLAC IR2 run and the CP run

Linearity and PTC turnoff
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Linearity turnoff and PTC turnoff are two closely related metrics used to characterize the upper limit of the usable signal range for accurate imaging. 
Linearity turnoff is the point at which LSSTCam deviates from linearity in the PTC curve. In our case, the deviation threshold is 2%.
PTC turnoff refers to the high signal region of the PTC where the PTC begins to decrease noise for higher flux. This is due to blooming and saturation within the CCDs.
While slightly different, both metrics provide important information about the upper limits of the dynamic range in our sensors. Linearity turnoff is measured in units of e-, while PTC turnoff is measured in ADU.


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_LINEARITY_TURNOFF.png
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_LINEARITY_TURNOFF.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between linearity turnoff measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

..
  Write something here about linearity turnoff

.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_PTC_TURNOFF.png
   :target:  ../figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_PTC_TURNOFF.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between PTC turnoff measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

..
  Write something here about PTC turnoff

Maximum observed signal
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""


PTC Gain
""""""""""""
PTC gain is the conversion factor between the number of electrons generated in the CCD's pixels and the digital output signal. It is one of the key parameters derived from the Photon Transfer Curve, as it is the slope from where the noise is dominated by shot noise. Gain is expressed in e- / ADU, and quantifies how effective the CCD's analog signal is digitized. 

Brighter fatter a_00 coefficient
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""


.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_PTC_A00.png
   :target:  /figures/baselineCharacterization/13591_E749_PTC_A00.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between PTC A_00 measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon


Brighter-fatter correlation
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""


Row means variance
""""""""""""""""""""


PTC Noise
"""""""""""


Divisadero Tearing
"""""""""""""""""""""


Dark defects
""""""""""""""""
Dark defects are localized regions or individual pixels that produce abnormally low signal levels, even in the presence of light. These defects are typically caused by imperfections in the CCD’s semiconductor material or manufacturing process.
In the context of LSSTCam, we extract dark pixels from combined flats, with the threshold for a dark defect set to a 20% deviation from flatness.

.. image::   /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_DARK_PIXELS.png
   :target:  /figures/baselineCharacterization/13557_E1071_DARK_PIXELS.png
   :alt: Figure showing the comparison between dark pixel measurements at SLAC and at Cerro Pachon

Dark pixels measures between SLAC and Cerro Pachon average ~1800 per amplifier, regardless of manufacturer. The reason for the high dark pixel counts is due to a picture-frame response near the edges of the sensors.

.. 
  Picture of the picture-frame response

The configuration for generating dark defects considers a border pixel region that is masked differently from the dark pixels. The default configuration has a border of zero. The largest region allowed for the picture frame region is 9 pixels, determined by LCA-19363. When applying a uniform 9 pixel mask across SLAC IR2 runs and Run 7 runs, we get the following result.

.. 
  Picture of 9 pixel dark defect comparison


Persistence
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



Differences from previous runs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


..
  table here showing the metrics and their comparison to IR2 metrics

..
  currently we do not use different LED flats for analysis - should we make mention of them at all?
