sections/sequencerOptimization.rst, before:

Sequencer Optimization
#################################

Sequencer files have undergone evolution for both ITL and e2v versions. The latest sequencer file from Run 6 was the v26_noRG version for ITL and the regular v26 for e2v. The suffix _noRG indicates that the RG bit is not toggled during parallel transfer. This modification appears to enhance the stability of the bias structure for most ITL amplifiers.

During Run 7, several changes were implemented, as described below:

- v27 incorporated guider functionalities, including ParallelFlushG and ReadGFrame. However, the noRG change was inadvertently included. Consequently, we abandoned this version and switched to v28.
- v28 sequencer files merged v26_no_RG and v27. https://rubinobs.atlassian.net/browse/LSSTCAM-5
- v29 introduced changes to speed up the guider. https://rubinobs.atlassian.net/browse/LSSTCAM-34
- v30 primarily focused on e2v. We introduced a new approach to NopSf for e2v sensors https://github.com/lsst-camera-dh/sequencer-files/pull/17. To align timing with the ITL version, a change was made.  https://github.com/lsst-camera-dh/sequencer-files/pull/18

This section describes sequencer optimization.

- No-pocket conclusions
- Serial flush conclusions
- Overlap conclusions

Commit message:

Add information for all change in sequencers related to clear CCD

sections/sequencerOptimization.rst, after:

Sequencer Optimization
#################################

Sequencer files have undergone evolution for both ITL and e2v versions. The latest sequencer file from Run 6 was the v26_noRG version for ITL and the regular v26 for e2v. The suffix _noRG indicates that the RG bit is not toggled during parallel transfer. This modification appears to enhance the stability of the bias structure for most ITL amplifiers.

During Run 7, several changes were implemented, as described below:

- v27 incorporated guider functionalities, including ParallelFlushG and ReadGFrame. However, the noRG change was inadvertently included. Consequently, we abandoned this version and switched to v28.
- v28 sequencer files merged v26_no_RG and v27. https://rubinobs.atlassian.net/browse/LSSTCAM-5
- v29 introduced changes to speed up the guider. https://rubinobs.atlassian.net/browse/LSSTCAM-34
- v30 primarily focused on e2v. We introduced a new approach to NopSf for e2v sensors https://github.com/lsst-camera-dh/sequencer-files/pull/17. To align timing with the ITL version, a change was made.  https://github.com/lsst-camera-dh/sequencer-files/pull/18

This section describes sequencer optimization.

- CCD clear conclusions

  For a full presentation of the results see `Improvement of Clear CCD <https://sitcomtn-148.lsst.io/#serialRemnants>`__.   
  
  - **No Pocket** 

  We introduced in the V29_NoP (No Pocket) sequencer, an improved clear with a serial register configuration that reduces the creation of pockets at the Image/Serial register interface.
  This clear shown a factor ~2  improvement in saturated image clear for e2v, and fully solved the problem for ITL , except for R01_S11 for which the result with No Pocket appends to be worse by a factor 2 than with the default clear.
  This ITL ccd presents for a not understood reason,  a large quantities of uncleared charges( 100's of lines) after a saturated flat. This issue prevents to use the No Pocket configuration with ITL.      

  - **No Pocket with Serial flush**

  We introduced in V29_NoPSF ( No Pocket with Serial Flush), an improved version of the No Pocket Clear sequencer, including a variable configuration of the Serial register during the clear (=mimic a serial flush),
  to further prevent the formation of Pockets. This solution has demonstrated to fully prevent the presence of left over charges after the clear of a saturated inmage for e2v device.


   **No Pocket with Serial flush** is from now ( V30) the default clear for the e2v device . Until a solution is found to clear saturated image of R01_S10, the initial Clear methode ( Serial phases always up)
   will stay the default to clear ITL device. 
  
  
- Overlap conclusions


- e2v "No RG" conclusions
